Welcome back.
Let's see if we can do something interesting here.
I'm going to remove this line.
Remember we just have dragon and lizard.
We're going to once again inherit or create a prototype chain
up to Dragon.
And now here let's check something.
I'm going to do a for in loop so I'm going to say let property in lizard that is looped through the
properties and lizard and let's just simply say console dot log prop or property.
If I run this I see that the Lizard has properties name fight fire and sink because we've created a
prototype chain.
Now the base object also gives us another interesting method that we can use called has own property.
If I do if lizard DOT has own property and we give it a property name so let's just give it prop which
we're gonna loop over and say if lizard has own property then we're going to console log.
What does that mean.
Well we're saying with this method only log whatever lizard has as its own property.
Let's see what happens when I run this.
I only get name and fight because lizard only has name and fight the other properties are inherited
from up the prototype chain.
How cool is that.
So we're not actually copying these properties from the dragon.
As I said before if the JavaScript engine doesn't find the property on that object it goes up the prototype
chain for example the has own property is not part of lizard.
So it goes up the prototype chain to Dragon and then up to the base object and finds his own property
and we're able to use it and the beauty is that JavaScript looks for you through the prototype chain
automatically.
We don't have to do any weird dot underscore and score proto dot underscore proto proto to find has
on property.
It does it automatically.
And I want to remind you this isn't the same thing as the scope chain that we talked about.
Remember these are the prototype chains and these are the scope chains.
Different color change right.
So keep that in mind.
They work in a similar fashion but they're two different things.
Now before I tell you why this is so useful.
If you haven't already figured it out I do want to warn you what I've just shown you.
Well you shouldn't really attempt.
You might be asking yourself Hey how come I haven't really seen this underscore underscore proto before.
It seems pretty useful why don't we see it everywhere.
Well this underscore underscore Prieto although we can use it here you shouldn't really use it.
Actually you should never use it.
It's bad for performance and there's different ways that we want to inherit when it comes to prototype
or inheritance something that we're really going to dive deep into when we talk about object oriented
programming.
So we never want to manually assign the prototype chain and create that chain ourselves.
It's going to well mess up our javascript compiler pretty badly but I wanted to show you just how it
works.
And when we start talking about object oriented programming we'll learn proper ways of doing this.
Now let's talk about why this prototype all inheritance is useful let's think about this maybe pause
the video.
Think about it.
Why is this useful.
The fact that objects can share prototypes means that you can have objects with properties that are
pointing to the same place in memory thus being more efficient.
Imagine if we had a ton of lizards right.
And we just copied all this functionality of the dragon onto the lizard into a different place in memory.
That can get overwhelming fairly soon.
Instead with prototype all inheritance instead of just copying all this functionality into different
places in memory we have it in just one place.
Anything that inherits from Dragon will just use this one instance of this method because the JavaScript
engine is just going to look up the prototype chain which makes things really interesting right.
For example this has own property that lives on the base object only lives a memory in one location
because well we'll just use the prototype chain to look for it and everything that inherits from the
base object will get access to this.
How cool is that.
We're being efficient with our code.
We're not repeating ourselves and we're saving ourselves memory and by the way whenever we get undefined
on something let's say in here I go lizard dot haha and I run this I get a type error or if I go as
a prop. I get undefined whenever the JavaScript engine doesn't find anything up the prototype chain.
We get these errors or undefined because it goes all the way up to the base object and then what happens
after we get to the base object let's find out if I clear this.
Let me refresh and say I have an object that will create it's gonna be an empty object and if we do
object dot proto Well I get the base object where all objects are created from.
But let me ask you this.
What if I do dot underscore underscore Frodo again even higher up than this base object.
What do you think will happen we get no that surprise you know means there's nothing there when javascript
was created as a language undefined was used for well we don't have that variable we don't have something
defined nor meant there's absolutely nothing there because of its prototype all inheritance nature we
needed some way to say Hey pass the base object there's nothing there there's not some would call this
a null pointer pointing to no it's the end of the chain.
Sorry I got nothing for you there.
Throw an error throw undefined.
Say something's wrong we don't have that.
All right let's take a break and get into more prototype or inheritance in the next video by.